---
layout: default_blog
title: Hen Luot 002
thumbnail: "/scr/blogs-231106-hen-luot-001-1.png"
permalink: /blogs/en/:title
---

The second iteration of "Hẹn Lướt," which was fittingly named "Tiễn Đưa Công Nghệ" (Farewell Technology), was held at the vibrant and dynamic 3 Năm Studio on Saturday, October 28th (no, it has nothing to do with Halloween). This meetup served as a nostalgic trip down memory lane, allowing attendees to reflect on the early days of internet usage in Vietnam. 

CodeSurfing stands firm in our mission to empower individuals to take command of, and contribute to, the pervasive technology that saturates every facet of our existence. We staunchly believe in the transformative potential of technology and the profound impact it can have on our world. Beyond this, we are steadfast in our belief in the power of individuals - in their capacity to comprehend, alter, and enhance the technology that envelops us. We stand as a beacon, reigniting the joy and wonder we all experienced during our initial encounters with technology, the untainted thrill of exploration and discovery. 

In its early days, the Internet was an unbridled playground of possibilities, enabling users to engage in an online world unencumbered by today's constraints. The commercialization and monetization of the platform were distant concerns, and users enjoyed a carefree indifference toward privacy. This meetup served as a powerful reminder of that liberating era, while also sparking a robust discussion about the Internet's dynamic evolution.

The participants were required to submit their eulogy prior to their arrival which tells one thing about technology they wanted to pay tribute to. There was the BUZZ!, the emoticons, the local customization on Yahoo! Messengers; There was the invincible Motorola; There was Kpop360 forum where high school kids found the subtitles written in styled fonts and graphic effects of butterfly and flowers; The tiny torrent shortcut button paired with every videos; The marriages in online games where the bride and groom can talk around the clock amongst the monsters or on a dance floor. 

The fundamental concept was not to proclaim that “Technology is dead!". That's not the case. What we are witnessing is more akin to a rebirth of sorts, a new approach to using technology and the Internet has emerged. When large corporations tether users to a specific range of functionalities, some of which can be accessed for free while others require a fee, they essentially transform these users into passive consumers. These consumers find themselves devoid of any real power to tailor or curate the digital experience to their liking, to customize it in a way that suits their needs and preferences. This is not a sustainable model, and as such, we are beginning to see a shift away from this approach. How? 

Imagine you can design your own technology for a day! That's exactly what our participants got to do. They huddled up in groups of four, brainstorming a social media model that really "speaks to you" – and guess what? It could be used on any device they preferred! Their presentations were a colorful display of their creative ideas, the functionalities they dream of, the aesthetics they love, and the logic they crave in a world where social media platforms are all about monetization. Many were audacious enough to express their wish for hybrid platforms that blend physical interactions and challenge the conventional concept of time. Exciting, isn't it?

The excitement wasn't just confined to the participants - CodeSurfing officially stormed into the chat! Our goal is to rekindle this spirit, reviving the passion and determination to learn, innovate, and enjoy technology as if it were our natural habitat. We are unwavering in our commitment to shifting the paradigm, moving users from passive consumers to active participants, contributors, and creators of technology. When individuals are truly empowered to understand and mold the technology around them, the realm of possibility is within the hands of users. Debuting with a bang, the website and resources masterfully crafted by Nhan Phan were unveiled. Further piquing our interest, a comprehensive 12-session workshop was announced, promising to deepen participants' grasp of creative coding. The future is wide open - a humble draft shared in the meetup today could well blossom into a full-fledged platform tomorrow!